CONTINUATION_PROMPT_v2.0.0.md, before:

# Charity Tracker v2.0.2 - Continuation Prompt

## Current State: v2.0.0 → v2.0.1 Migration
**Date:** January 22, 2025
**Developer:** Assistant continuing from previous session
**User:** Rob Pressman

## Project Overview
Charity Tracker is a web application for tracking charitable donations and maximizing tax benefits. Built with Qwik framework, deployed on Cloudflare Pages with D1 (SQLite) database.

## Critical Infrastructure - DO NOT CHANGE

### Auto-Deployment Configuration
```bash
# WORKING - DO NOT MODIFY
git add -A && git commit -m "commit message" && git push origin main
# Auto-deploys to Cloudflare Pages via GitHub integration
# GitHub repo: https://github.com/robpress123-png/charity-tracker-qwik
```

### Project Structure
```
/charity-tracker-qwik/   # Qwik-based application
├── dist/                 # Static HTML files (temporary until full Qwik migration)
│   ├── dashboard.html    # Main user interface (5000+ lines)
│   ├── login.html       # User login
│   ├── register.html    # User registration
│   ├── index.html       # Landing page
│   ├── admin-dashboard.html # Admin interface
│   └── admin-login.html # Admin login
├── functions/api/       # Cloudflare Workers API endpoints
│   ├── auth/           # Authentication endpoints
│   ├── donations.js    # Donation CRUD operations
│   ├── charities/      # Charity management
│   └── users/          # User management
├── sql/                # Database schemas
├── src/                # Qwik source files (to be migrated)
└── package.json        # Version 2.0.0 (Qwik dependencies)
```

## Authentication System - WORKING
```javascript
// Token format: token-{userId}-{timestamp}
// Example: token-user123-1674389234
// Stored in localStorage, sent as Bearer token
```

## v2.0.0 Migration Requirements

### 1. New Database Schema
```sql
-- Existing tables remain mostly unchanged
-- Key change: Remove JSON from notes field
-- Add new donation_items table

CREATE TABLE donation_items (
    id TEXT PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT (lower(hex(randomblob(16)))),
    donation_id TEXT NOT NULL,
    item_name TEXT NOT NULL,
    category TEXT,
    condition TEXT CHECK(condition IN ('excellent', 'very_good', 'good', 'fair')),
    quantity INTEGER DEFAULT 1,
    unit_value DECIMAL(10, 2),
    total_value DECIMAL(10, 2),
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (donation_id) REFERENCES donations(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

CREATE INDEX idx_donation_items_donation_id ON donation_items(donation_id);
```

### 2. API Changes Needed

#### POST /api/donations
When donation_type = 'items':
1. Insert donation record with total amount
2. Insert individual items into donation_items table
3. Return both donation and items

#### GET /api/donations/{id}
When donation_type = 'items':
1. Fetch donation record
2. JOIN with donation_items to get items list
3. Return complete data structure

#### PUT /api/donations/{id}
When donation_type = 'items':
1. Update donation amount (sum of items)
2. Delete existing items from donation_items
3. Insert updated items list

### 3. UI Changes Required

#### Dashboard.html Updates
- Fix editDonation() to handle items properly
- Update viewDonationDetails() to display items from new table
- Modify donation form to handle items array properly
- Fix the items donation interface for better UX

## Features That MUST Continue Working

### ✅ Core Functionality (All Working in v1.8.0)
- Multi-user authentication with JWT-like tokens
- Donation tracking (cash, stock, crypto, items, mileage)
- 10,000+ IRS-verified charities database
- Personal charity management (add, edit, delete with FK protection)
- Full CRUD operations for donations
- Tax calculations based on user's tax bracket
- Year-based filtering for all data

### ✅ User Dashboard Features
- Dashboard Overview with stats cards
- Donation History with dropdown actions menu (View, Edit, Receipt, Delete)
- My Charities (alphabetically sorted, with category badges)
- Quick donation entry from My Charities
- Profile management with tax settings
- Tools section with import/export capabilities

### ✅ Recent Improvements (v1.7.x → v1.8.0)
- Fixed foreign key constraint issues (use charity_id OR user_charity_id)
- Dropdown action menus instead of multiple buttons
- View Details modal with comprehensive information
- Edit functionality that actually loads existing data
- Quick Donation with charity pre-population
- My Charities showing ALL charities with donations

### ✅ UI/UX Features
- Dropdown menus for actions (saves vertical space)
- Modal dialogs for add/edit operations
- Click-outside-to-close on modals
- Responsive stat cards
- Loading states and error handling
- Currency formatting with commas

## Sample Data Requirements for v2.0.0

### REQUIRED: Generate CSV files for fresh database population

#### 1. **donations.csv** (MUST CREATE - 50+ donations)
```csv
Headers: id,user_id,charity_id,user_charity_id,donation_type,amount,date,notes
```
- **Total records:** 50-75 donations minimum
- **Date range:** 1/1/2025 to TODAY (spread evenly)
- **User:** All for user 'test@example.com' (user_id from auth)
- **Distribution:**
  - 20 cash donations ($25 to $2,500)
  - 10 items donations (total value from items table)
  - 8 stock donations ($500 to $5,000)
  - 7 mileage donations (10-500 miles @ $0.14/mile)
  - 5 crypto donations ($100 to $3,000)
- **Charities:** Mix of system charities (use charity_id) and personal (use user_charity_id)
- **Notes:** Realistic notes like "Year-end giving", "Spring cleaning donation", etc.

#### 2. **donation_items.csv** (MUST CREATE - for each items donation)
```csv
Headers: id,donation_id,item_name,category,condition,quantity,unit_value,total_value
```
- **Link to:** Each items donation in donations.csv
- **Items per donation:** 3-10 items
- **Categories:** Clothing, Electronics, Furniture, Books, Household, Toys, Sports
- **Conditions:** excellent, very_good, good (NO fair - not deductible)
- **Values:** Realistic thrift store values ($5-$500)
- **Examples:**
  - Winter Coat, Clothing, very_good, 1, 45.00, 45.00
  - Laptop Computer, Electronics, good, 1, 200.00, 200.00
  - Children's Books, Books, excellent, 15, 3.00, 45.00

#### 3. **user_charities.csv** (MUST CREATE - 5-10 personal charities)
```csv
Headers: id,user_id,name,ein,category,is_approved
```
- Local churches, schools, small nonprofits
- Mix of approved (1) and pending (0)
- Various categories to test filtering

## Known Issues to Fix in v2.0.0
1. Items donation edit functionality (main reason for v2.0.0)
2. Receipt upload still not implemented
3. PDF report generation not implemented
4. Email notifications not implemented
5. Bank integration not implemented

## Testing Checklist for v2.0.0
- [ ] Login/logout works
- [ ] Auto-deployment via GitHub works
- [ ] Add cash donation
- [ ] Add items donation (with multiple items)
- [ ] Add stock donation
- [ ] Add crypto donation
- [ ] Add mileage donation
- [ ] Edit all donation types
- [ ] View Details shows correct information
- [ ] Delete donation (with cascade to items)
- [ ] My Charities quick add works
- [ ] Personal charities CRUD works
- [ ] Year filter works correctly
- [ ] Search functionality works
- [ ] CSV export includes items details
- [ ] Tax calculations are accurate

## Git Commit Convention
```bash
# Format: "v2.0.0: Description of changes"
git add -A && git commit -m "v2.0.0: Implement proper donation_items table" && git push origin main
```

## Environment Variables (via Cloudflare Dashboard)
- Database: D1 database bound as `DB`
- No other environment variables needed

## Browser Compatibility
- Chrome/Edge: Full support
- Firefox: Full support
- Safari: Full support
- Mobile: Needs responsive improvements

## Security Considerations
- SQL injection prevention via prepared statements
- XSS protection through proper escaping
- CSRF: Not implemented (needed)
- Rate limiting: Via Cloudflare
- HTTPS: Enforced by Cloudflare

## Performance Notes
- Current donation fetch: Gets ALL donations (up to 10,000)
- Should implement pagination in v2.1
- Database indexes needed on commonly queried fields

## Version History
- v1.0.0: Initial release
- v1.7.1-1.7.9: Bug fixes and UI improvements
- v1.8.0: Dropdown menus, view details, edit fixes
- v2.0.0: Proper relational design for items donations

## CRITICAL REMINDERS
1. **ALWAYS test auto-deployment after changes**
2. **NEVER change the authentication token format**
3. **ALWAYS update version numbers in all HTML files AND package.json**
4. **Database changes need migration scripts**
5. **Personal charities use user_charity_id, system charities use charity_id**

## Next Developer Actions for v2.0.0
1. Create database migration script
2. Update /api/donations endpoint for items handling
3. Fix dashboard.html items donation UI
4. Generate and import sample data
5. Test all functionality
6. Update version numbers everywhere
7. Deploy via git push

## Contact
- Repository: https://github.com/robpress123-png/charity-tracker-qwik
- Deployment: Cloudflare Pages (connected via GitHub)
- Database: Cloudflare D1 (SQLite)
- Framework: Qwik with Cloudflare Pages adapter

Commit message:

chore: bump version to 2.0.4
- Automated version bump (patch)
- All HTML files updated
- VERSION.json updated

CONTINUATION_PROMPT_v2.0.0.md, after:

# Charity Tracker v2.0.2 - Continuation Prompt

## Current State: v2.0.0 → v2.0.1 Migration
**Date:** January 22, 2025
**Developer:** Assistant continuing from previous session
**User:** Rob Pressman

## Project Overview
Charity Tracker is a web application for tracking charitable donations and maximizing tax benefits. Built with Qwik framework, deployed on Cloudflare Pages with D1 (SQLite) database.

## 🚨 CRITICAL: Version Management Protocol
**THIS IS CORE FUNCTIONALITY - MUST BE MAINTAINED**

### Automatic Version Bumping Required
**Every time you make changes and deploy, you MUST run the version bump command:**

```bash
npm run bump        # For bug fixes and minor changes (2.0.3 → 2.0.4)
npm run bump:minor  # For new features (2.0.3 → 2.1.0)
npm run bump:major  # For breaking changes (2.0.3 → 3.0.0)
```

This automated command will:
1. Update version in package.json (single source of truth)
2. Inject new version into ALL HTML files automatically
3. Update VERSION.json tracking file
4. Commit all changes with proper message
5. Push to GitHub (triggers Cloudflare Pages auto-deployment)

### Why This Is Critical
- User specifically requested this on 2025-09-23
- Prevents version mismatch issues across different pages
- Ensures all deployments are properly versioned
- Package.json is the ONLY place version needs to be updated

### Implementation Details
- Script location: `/scripts/auto-version-bump.js`
- Injection script: `/scripts/inject-version.js`
- Current version: 2.0.3 (as of 2025-09-23)

## Critical Infrastructure - DO NOT CHANGE

### Auto-Deployment Configuration
```bash
# WORKING - DO NOT MODIFY
git add -A && git commit -m "commit message" && git push origin main
# Auto-deploys to Cloudflare Pages via GitHub integration
# GitHub repo: https://github.com/robpress123-png/charity-tracker-qwik
```

### Project Structure
```
/charity-tracker-qwik/   # Qwik-based application
├── dist/                 # Static HTML files (temporary until full Qwik migration)
│   ├── dashboard.html    # Main user interface (5000+ lines)
│   ├── login.html       # User login
│   ├── register.html    # User registration
│   ├── index.html       # Landing page
│   ├── admin-dashboard.html # Admin interface
│   └── admin-login.html # Admin login
├── functions/api/       # Cloudflare Workers API endpoints
│   ├── auth/           # Authentication endpoints
│   ├── donations.js    # Donation CRUD operations
│   ├── charities/      # Charity management
│   └── users/          # User management
├── sql/                # Database schemas
├── src/                # Qwik source files (to be migrated)
└── package.json        # Version 2.0.0 (Qwik dependencies)
```

## Authentication System - WORKING
```javascript
// Token format: token-{userId}-{timestamp}
// Example: token-user123-1674389234
// Stored in localStorage, sent as Bearer token
```

## v2.0.0 Migration Requirements

### 1. New Database Schema
```sql
-- Existing tables remain mostly unchanged
-- Key change: Remove JSON from notes field
-- Add new donation_items table

CREATE TABLE donation_items (
    id TEXT PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT (lower(hex(randomblob(16)))),
    donation_id TEXT NOT NULL,
    item_name TEXT NOT NULL,
    category TEXT,
    condition TEXT CHECK(condition IN ('excellent', 'very_good', 'good', 'fair')),
    quantity INTEGER DEFAULT 1,
    unit_value DECIMAL(10, 2),
    total_value DECIMAL(10, 2),
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (donation_id) REFERENCES donations(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

CREATE INDEX idx_donation_items_donation_id ON donation_items(donation_id);
```

### 2. API Changes Needed

#### POST /api/donations
When donation_type = 'items':
1. Insert donation record with total amount
2. Insert individual items into donation_items table
3. Return both donation and items

#### GET /api/donations/{id}
When donation_type = 'items':
1. Fetch donation record
2. JOIN with donation_items to get items list
3. Return complete data structure

#### PUT /api/donations/{id}
When donation_type = 'items':
1. Update donation amount (sum of items)
2. Delete existing items from donation_items
3. Insert updated items list

### 3. UI Changes Required

#### Dashboard.html Updates
- Fix editDonation() to handle items properly
- Update viewDonationDetails() to display items from new table
- Modify donation form to handle items array properly
- Fix the items donation interface for better UX

## Features That MUST Continue Working

### ✅ Core Functionality (All Working in v1.8.0)
- Multi-user authentication with JWT-like tokens
- Donation tracking (cash, stock, crypto, items, mileage)
- 10,000+ IRS-verified charities database
- Personal charity management (add, edit, delete with FK protection)
- Full CRUD operations for donations
- Tax calculations based on user's tax bracket
- Year-based filtering for all data

### ✅ User Dashboard Features
- Dashboard Overview with stats cards
- Donation History with dropdown actions menu (View, Edit, Receipt, Delete)
- My Charities (alphabetically sorted, with category badges)
- Quick donation entry from My Charities
- Profile management with tax settings
- Tools section with import/export capabilities

### ✅ Recent Improvements (v1.7.x → v1.8.0)
- Fixed foreign key constraint issues (use charity_id OR user_charity_id)
- Dropdown action menus instead of multiple buttons
- View Details modal with comprehensive information
- Edit functionality that actually loads existing data
- Quick Donation with charity pre-population
- My Charities showing ALL charities with donations

### ✅ UI/UX Features
- Dropdown menus for actions (saves vertical space)
- Modal dialogs for add/edit operations
- Click-outside-to-close on modals
- Responsive stat cards
- Loading states and error handling
- Currency formatting with commas

## Sample Data Requirements for v2.0.0

### REQUIRED: Generate CSV files for fresh database population

#### 1. **donations.csv** (MUST CREATE - 50+ donations)
```csv
Headers: id,user_id,charity_id,user_charity_id,donation_type,amount,date,notes
```
- **Total records:** 50-75 donations minimum
- **Date range:** 1/1/2025 to TODAY (spread evenly)
- **User:** All for user 'test@example.com' (user_id from auth)
- **Distribution:**
  - 20 cash donations ($25 to $2,500)
  - 10 items donations (total value from items table)
  - 8 stock donations ($500 to $5,000)
  - 7 mileage donations (10-500 miles @ $0.14/mile)
  - 5 crypto donations ($100 to $3,000)
- **Charities:** Mix of system charities (use charity_id) and personal (use user_charity_id)
- **Notes:** Realistic notes like "Year-end giving", "Spring cleaning donation", etc.

#### 2. **donation_items.csv** (MUST CREATE - for each items donation)
```csv
Headers: id,donation_id,item_name,category,condition,quantity,unit_value,total_value
```
- **Link to:** Each items donation in donations.csv
- **Items per donation:** 3-10 items
- **Categories:** Clothing, Electronics, Furniture, Books, Household, Toys, Sports
- **Conditions:** excellent, very_good, good (NO fair - not deductible)
- **Values:** Realistic thrift store values ($5-$500)
- **Examples:**
  - Winter Coat, Clothing, very_good, 1, 45.00, 45.00
  - Laptop Computer, Electronics, good, 1, 200.00, 200.00
  - Children's Books, Books, excellent, 15, 3.00, 45.00

#### 3. **user_charities.csv** (MUST CREATE - 5-10 personal charities)
```csv
Headers: id,user_id,name,ein,category,is_approved
```
- Local churches, schools, small nonprofits
- Mix of approved (1) and pending (0)
- Various categories to test filtering

## Known Issues to Fix in v2.0.0
1. Items donation edit functionality (main reason for v2.0.0)
2. Receipt upload still not implemented
3. PDF report generation not implemented
4. Email notifications not implemented
5. Bank integration not implemented

## Testing Checklist for v2.0.0
- [ ] Login/logout works
- [ ] Auto-deployment via GitHub works
- [ ] Add cash donation
- [ ] Add items donation (with multiple items)
- [ ] Add stock donation
- [ ] Add crypto donation
- [ ] Add mileage donation
- [ ] Edit all donation types
- [ ] View Details shows correct information
- [ ] Delete donation (with cascade to items)
- [ ] My Charities quick add works
- [ ] Personal charities CRUD works
- [ ] Year filter works correctly
- [ ] Search functionality works
- [ ] CSV export includes items details
- [ ] Tax calculations are accurate

## Git Commit Convention
```bash
# Format: "v2.0.0: Description of changes"
git add -A && git commit -m "v2.0.0: Implement proper donation_items table" && git push origin main
```

## Environment Variables (via Cloudflare Dashboard)
- Database: D1 database bound as `DB`
- No other environment variables needed

## Browser Compatibility
- Chrome/Edge: Full support
- Firefox: Full support
- Safari: Full support
- Mobile: Needs responsive improvements

## Security Considerations
- SQL injection prevention via prepared statements
- XSS protection through proper escaping
- CSRF: Not implemented (needed)
- Rate limiting: Via Cloudflare
- HTTPS: Enforced by Cloudflare

## Performance Notes
- Current donation fetch: Gets ALL donations (up to 10,000)
- Should implement pagination in v2.1
- Database indexes needed on commonly queried fields

## Version History
- v1.0.0: Initial release
- v1.7.1-1.7.9: Bug fixes and UI improvements
- v1.8.0: Dropdown menus, view details, edit fixes
- v2.0.0: Proper relational design for items donations

## CRITICAL REMINDERS
1. **ALWAYS test auto-deployment after changes**
2. **NEVER change the authentication token format**
3. **ALWAYS update version numbers in all HTML files AND package.json**
4. **Database changes need migration scripts**
5. **Personal charities use user_charity_id, system charities use charity_id**

## Next Developer Actions for v2.0.0
1. Create database migration script
2. Update /api/donations endpoint for items handling
3. Fix dashboard.html items donation UI
4. Generate and import sample data
5. Test all functionality
6. Update version numbers everywhere
7. Deploy via git push

## Contact
- Repository: https://github.com/robpress123-png/charity-tracker-qwik
- Deployment: Cloudflare Pages (connected via GitHub)
- Database: Cloudflare D1 (SQLite)
- Framework: Qwik with Cloudflare Pages adapter
